README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/PhaseTracer/PhaseTracer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/PhaseTracer/PhaseTracer)

# PhaseTracer

`PhaseTracer` is a C++ software package for mapping out cosmological phases, and potential transitions between them, for Standard Model extensions with any number of scalar fields.

## Citing

If you use `PhaseTracer`, please cite the accompanying manual

    @article{PhaseTracer,
      author         = "Athron, Peter and Balazs, Csaba and Fowlie, Andrew and Zhang, Yang",
      title          = "{PhaseTracer: tracing cosmological phases and calculating transition properties}",
      year           = "2020",
      eprint         = "2003.02859",
      archivePrefix  = "arXiv",
      primaryClass   = "hep-ph",
      reportNumber   = "CoEPP-MN-20-3",
    }
    

## Quickstart

### Requirements

The following libraries are required to build `PhaseTracer`:

* [nlopt](http://ab-initio.mit.edu/wiki/index.php/NLopt/)  is used for locating the extrema of potentials.
* [Eigen](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org) is an excellent linear algebra library
* The following [BOOST](http://www.boost.org/) libraries are required:

  * `Boost.Filesystem`
  * `Boost.Log`

* Our `EffectivePotential` library is built automatically in our build process, but itself requires

  * [alglib](http://www.alglib.net/) for spline interpolation

On Ubuntu, the dependencies can be installed by

    sudo apt install libalglib-dev libnlopt-dev libeigen3-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libboost-log-dev
    
On Mac, they can be installed by
    
    brew install alglib nlopt eigen boost

### Building

To build the shared library and the examples:

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make

### Running

If the build was succesful, run the examples with:

    cd ..
    ./bin/run_1D_test_model
    ./bin/run_2D_test_model
    ./bin/scan_Z2_scalar_singlet_model

### Building and running examples with `FlexibleSUSY` and `BSMPT`

To build the example `THDMIISNMSSMBCsimple` with `FlexibleSUSY`:

    cmake -D BUILD_WITH_FS=ON ..
    make

Then run the example with:

    cd ..
    ./bin/run_THDMIISNMSSMBCsimple

To build the examples with BSMPT:

    cmake -D BUILD_WITH_BSMPT=ON ..
    make

Then run the examples with:

    cd ..
    ./bin/run_R2HDM
    ./bin/run_C2HDM
    ./bin/run_N2HDM

Commit message:

Add alglib-cmake in the readme

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/PhaseTracer/PhaseTracer.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/PhaseTracer/PhaseTracer)

# PhaseTracer

`PhaseTracer` is a C++ software package for mapping out cosmological phases, and potential transitions between them, for Standard Model extensions with any number of scalar fields.

## Citing

If you use `PhaseTracer`, please cite the accompanying manual

    @article{PhaseTracer,
      author         = "Athron, Peter and Balazs, Csaba and Fowlie, Andrew and Zhang, Yang",
      title          = "{PhaseTracer: tracing cosmological phases and calculating transition properties}",
      year           = "2020",
      eprint         = "2003.02859",
      archivePrefix  = "arXiv",
      primaryClass   = "hep-ph",
      reportNumber   = "CoEPP-MN-20-3",
    }
    

## Quickstart

### Requirements

The following libraries are required to build `PhaseTracer`:

* [nlopt](http://ab-initio.mit.edu/wiki/index.php/NLopt/)  is used for locating the extrema of potentials.
* [Eigen](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org) is an excellent linear algebra library
* The following [BOOST](http://www.boost.org/) libraries are required:

  * `Boost.Filesystem`
  * `Boost.Log`

* Our `EffectivePotential` library is built automatically in our build process, but itself requires

  * [alglib](http://www.alglib.net/) for spline interpolation

On Ubuntu, the dependencies can be installed by

    sudo apt install libalglib-dev libnlopt-dev libeigen3-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libboost-log-dev
    
On Mac, they can be installed by
    
    brew install alglib nlopt eigen boost

In case [alglib](http://www.alglib.net/) is not found in package manager, try [alglib-cmake](https://github.com/S-Dafarra/alglib-cmake).

### Building

To build the shared library and the examples:

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make

### Running

If the build was succesful, run the examples with:

    cd ..
    ./bin/run_1D_test_model
    ./bin/run_2D_test_model
    ./bin/scan_Z2_scalar_singlet_model

### Building and running examples with `FlexibleSUSY` and `BSMPT`

To build the example `THDMIISNMSSMBCsimple` with `FlexibleSUSY`:

    cmake -D BUILD_WITH_FS=ON ..
    make

Then run the example with:

    cd ..
    ./bin/run_THDMIISNMSSMBCsimple

To build the examples with BSMPT:

    cmake -D BUILD_WITH_BSMPT=ON ..
    make

Then run the examples with:

    cd ..
    ./bin/run_R2HDM
    ./bin/run_C2HDM
    ./bin/run_N2HDM
